These two appeals arise out of assessments of the appellant to income tax for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50. The question in these appeals is whether on the facts to be presently stated, the appellant was entitled to relief under section 25(4) of the Income No tax shall be payable in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such succession.<n>No tax shall be payable by the first mentioned person in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous The appellant contends that it had been carrying on a business on April 1, 1939 from before and on that business tax had been charged under the Act of 1918 and that it was succeeded by a company as owner of the business as a result of a transfer by an instrument executed on February 7, 1948 Two instruments dated May 30, 1939, each described as an agreement of partnership. One instrument, which is marked as annexure CI, was between Nagjee, Narayanjee, Maneklal and Hemchand. The other instrument, which is marked as annexure C II The parties agreed that the business of the firm would be transferred to the company with effect from November 13, 1947, the transfer to be completed on February 13, 1948 by payment of the consi deration of Rs. 4 lacs by the vendee and delivery of the assets of the The business of the Firm shall consist mainly in the manufacture and sale of soaps and umbrellas and such allied products and such other articles as all the partners or the majority of them may agree. Partners 1 to 3 herein shall advance as, heretofore all funds that are necessary for the conduct of this Partnership In October/November 1937, a new partnership was started to do businesses of manufacture and sale of soap and umbrella between Hemraj and the remaining partners of the preexisting firm of the same name, that is, Nagjee, Narayanjee and Manecklal. This is clear from The firm brought into existence by the 1918 instrument was dissolved and a new firm was started between Nagjee, Narayanjee and Manecklal after the retirement of Purushotham in 1934. Therefore, the firm mentioned in annexure C I is a new firm and not the old 1918 firm In a case of a joint family business which on partition was split up between different members of the family, the Court of Appeal ruled that the family was entitled to relief under section 25(4) of the Income Tax Act.<n>The Court held that when the business on which On the principle stated in Annamalai ' Chettiar 's case,(1) there could not in such a case be a suc cession of the business from one to another. That being so, there can be no question of the succession to the business carried on at the In the year 1932 or thereabout, the firm had started the manufacture and sale of soaps under the name of "The Vegetable Soap Works" Proprietors Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co. and perhaps the manufacture and sale of umbrellas in Calicut with branches at Madras and Bombay under The Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 is hereby revoked and the affairs of the Firm shall be regulated and governed by the Regulations agreed upon orally and reduced into writing. The Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 is hereby revoked and the affairs of the Firm shall On October 30, 1943, a fresh deed of partnership was executed by Narayanjee and Manecklal who were continuing as partners from 1918 and two other members of the family namely Liladhar and Prabhulal and to the benefits of partnership Jayanand Nagjee who was The answer to the question depends on (a) whether the business on which tax was paid under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918 had discontinued at any time before 1948 or (b) whether there was a succession by another person for the person who was carrying on business Under section 3 of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, the subject of the tax was not the income of the previous year of assessment, but the income of the assessment year. By the Act of 1922, a change was introduced and the tax was payable on the income of the previous year in the following The Income tax Officer held that a succession had taken place in 1943 when on the retirement of Hemchand, the two separate businesses formed under exhibit Cl and C2 were amalgamated. The Tribunal also held that the business in soap and umbrella was different from the business of banking, Under the English Common Law, a firm is not regarded as a separate entity from the members composing it. The Indian Partnership Act has accepted the English Common Law though mercantile usages have crept into business accountancy and the Civil Procedure Code allows a firm to sue or be sued in the firm 's name provided the names Since the In come tax Act assesses a partnership as a unit and such units (1) Civil Appeal NO. 455 of 1963 decided on Dec. 13, 1963. 120 must, in the past, have been assessed to tax under the Act of 1918, sub section (4) allows a partnership to obtain A Hindu Un divided family was carrying on three separate businesses, namely money lending, running a ginning factory and a share business. This family disrupted in 1943 and divided the business among its members, and claimed the benefit of section 25(4) in respect of all the three businesses. It was It was held that he was not entitled to the benefit of section 25 (3) as the business was not discontinued. The High Court of Bombay upheld the contention of Polson, but the Privy Council reversed the decision approving the decision of the Madras High Court in Meyyappa vs Commissioner of In 1926, one Squire was taken as partner. In 1932, Figgies retired. In 1939, one Hillman was taken as partner. In 1945, one Gilbert was taken as partner. By that time, all the original partners had ceased to be partners and new ones had In 1918, and in 1934 different deeds were executed but the basic deed was that of 1918. By that time, Bhagwanjee had retired and the business was in the hands of only the members of the family. Hemehand was then taken on in 1937 and in 1939, the original A Hindu Undivided family con sisting of a father and son were carrying on money lending business under different vilasams. On March 28, 1939, there was a family partition and some vilasams were allotted to the father and the rest to the son, and he There was no cessation of business in so far as the original business of piece goods, yarn and banking was concerned. That business continued in the hands of the same person who had paid tax under the Act of 1918 though there were changes in the constitution of the partnership in the years that Under section 25(4), a mere change in the constitution of the partnership does not count and