The Petitioners were the owners of certain lands which were acquired by the respondents under the provisions of Sections 17 and 19 of the Bangalore Development Act, 1976 and the provisions of Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act provides that the Collector must make his award within two years from the date of the publication of the declaration and that if no award is made within that period, the entire proceedings for acqui 565 sition of the land shall lapse. Section 11 A of the Land Acquisition Act, which section was included in the said Act in 1984 as set out, provides that the Collector must make his award within two years from the date of the publication of the declaration and that if no award is made within that period, the entire proceedings for acqui 565 sition of the land shall lapse. Section 11 A of the Land Acquisition Act provides that where the said declaration (under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act) has been published before the commencement of the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984, the award must be made within a period of two years from the date of the publication of the declaration. Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act provides that the notification making the declaration under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act in respect of the lands in question was made on On December 16, 1987, two writ petitions were field by the respective petitioners in the Karnataka High Court challenging the acquisition on the ground that the awards were not made within the stipulated time.<n>In these two writ petitions, the Karnataka High Court granted interim stay of further proceedings in respect of the acquisition of the said lands. These petitions were dismissed by a learned Single Judge of that High Court on November 29, 1988. Appeals against the decision of a learned Single Judge were dismissed by the Karnataka High Court on October 6, 1989, by a Division Bench of that High Court. The petitioners preferred these Special Leave Petitions, namely S.L.P. Nos. 823 and 824 of 1990 against the decision of the Devision Bench of that High Court, and obtained an interim stay of dispossession therein. It is beyond dispute that the fact of the stay orders was highly material in the determination of these Special Leave Petitions. The said interim orders have a